do you have the full design system? if so, i want to look at my app in its existingish form  and convert that to the visionOS design here.  pretty much every screne in apps and ui elements represents a function of my app.  iphone android. react native. i want everything to have the same thamtic representation you see inth escreenshots, just in a slightly reduced aspect ratio. i want the UX to build off of this invisible, dismissable, barely interrupting, function. this would be the best mobile ai chat app in my opinion, in terms of look, design, and functionality/feature. 

to give you an idea, the main looks are:
- the home look, as you see with up to 9 cards, but do an up to 6 cards variant t- - card view, which is just an expansion of any card when pressed
-card view is activated if you desire a closer view and want to message just one ai model at a time
-card view should use its own window to load bear any selection menus, like files, which stores the generated files that model generated
-navigation should have a set trigger method/button. i was thinking a permanent settings icon in the bottom left corner that brings up the pane of options as app icons, which represent:
-Smart Gen Suite, which opens up to a window of a essentially a canvas app like trello, canva, morning, miro. it should have distinct sections for Smart Cards, Smart Boards, Smart Canvas, and Smart Genie. see below for details. especialy understand and serve the visual requirements. as i said before, everything is easily covered in some way but i say this to caution you against using the named thing in assumed equivalence. the visual design basis for transluscency is logical: if you the menu is navigational, logistical, or otherwise non-value added in its presence, if it's used only to facilitate value-added activity elsewhere, it should be  transparentand sizing should be appropriate to the level of possible intrusion the user would want to suffer. so the settings option app page in app &  ui elements (and the page name itself) is way oversized. my app is maybe  3 short tabs long, and the tabs are vertical, down the edge. but the settings should be very few in total. maybe 5 total, and can easily be a carousal style of maybe  of those options in view at once. looping. it should be small. sine they are all quick words and a toggle. they should look nice, and futureistic inimlementation as an overlay, but still simple. and then an account tab where you can see the typical ai app stats, and an upgrade button.

the prompt bar is invisble(transition animation, for this and all movement) until summoned, like the rest of the ui. it should come with the cosnensus preview button, which you see above the prompt bar directly. this means it will cover up cards, since cards are sized to fit their canvas (so yes shrink the canvas area enough to creat the effect of space achieved by visionOS. 

the consensus  preview bar wil autopopulate, and on click, with produce a nice big map of the consensus in visual form. if theres a better way to install this preview,, summon it, etc. im all ears. im open to all suggestions on anything.

the prompt bar can be summoned by a nice looking 3d or 3d ish central ball that is at the bttom of the screen. it summong the prompt

cards can be freely drag dropped within their canvas. this is achieved through long pressing, which will make it glow and lift, so you can reposition it.tapping once releases the card and the mode. reorganizing the cards into grid snap is accessed through the settings button., on the tab for model selection. this popup settings menu in general can be drag dropped anywhere, and all elements can be stacked on one another.  this includes the music player widget.

the settings tabs should be account, models, settings, discretely applied as tabs next to the already small menu . the selection of the model tab should smoothly transition to a slgihtly larger pane, still transparent and faded dges, but ow housing an array of model names abbreviated, with their toggles beside them. this has to look cool. this should be a torch like or ember  emittance of light or fire in some way. it;s a selector, so should reflect realistic  meaning. this is a subtle effect. not flamboyant or out of style. it should feel appropriate.there should be a drop down for switching categories of model (general, image, video, audio, coding). general is for all tiers. the rest are

General
Free, Pro

image, audio, video, coding
Pro, Elite

These should be visually locked when the subscription tier of the user is not sufficient. this can then unlock visually and functionally when the approprite tier is active. the the lock ui element should cover the entire group (pro, elite), and should distinguish them, especially with visual prominence. this is an important distinction and should carry the correct visual weight. 

clicking on a model in an unlockde category naturally shuts the light off and removes it from view. it shouldnt be an instant visual. it should travel naturally in recess or dissipation. clicking a locked area will bring up the easily dismissed (liike every card and pop up menu) upgrade canvas cards. these can be handled with dignity. of course they will need color differentiation and inviting aesthetics. but not loud. 

l

whereas working surfaces wher value added work is done or is perused, should have a more opaque, or opaque backing. things like smart gen cards, boards, elements, canvases in general. and the imagine market. which can be mapped just like any other streaming app, with a stunning canvas and cards and perhaps embedded categories, or slide out menu or other navigation features no negative space.. history pane as well should follow this, and should be accessible from within the model card in card view (zoomed up look) and in home view, not sure where, perhaps at the edge of the card canvas, same as in card view. or soething.. you figure it out. 

a nav bar can be opened from the left edge of this canvas and can house slots for each of:
Smart gen suite (with all features coded in and accessible in thematic simplicity. add card, click on a card to  get context options, including corner x button, edit and delete buttons when edit mode is entered, through button or long press. select all access, through either single tapping somewhere to access a small context window, or you can do a permanent realign button. 
Files
Theme Selector (same wndow, differnt tab  dot indicators for tabs)
Premium Theme Marketplace (same window as free theme seletor( dot 2)
Discover Market

these can likely also be tucked at the bottom of the screen as thin, but three dimensional, premium lines, with vertical labels in them and can include history too and settings if you want. whatever looks good. 

Each will yield the appropriate canvas with the appropriate design
Theme selector is freely accessed by all user. premium theme marketplace requires a paid sub to enter. therefore, they should be accessible from one canvas, so they can exist in easy, swipe left swipe right, access to one another.  premium market sells live wallpapers (on top of the sub requirement), and shows this in a beautiful, category-organized, searchable view, and comes bundled with 5 ambient songs, previewable when you click on a live wallpaper and access it's exploder, zoomed in view, which expands to show the 5 songs listed below or to the side of the wallpaper, directly serving as the "album color" image for the song player, like all music apps do. 

theme selector should also provide access to purchased themes, and music, since thats purchased, and a sub shouldnt prevent you from owning what you ppurchased. so both markets will show the purchased content, will full access.

context menus should be avaialble and offered for each menu where selection occurs. obvious things like chat messages will get the obviouss suite, which is alreday coded in. and gallery and files will get their contextual options as well. 

like in the examples, my app will have a background image thats given just as much as prominence and respect. this should be maintained so as to not break up the image's continuity. 

notes:
indlude minimum, the elements needed to support everything called out in smart gen. all of it.
search bar should be provided and should offer robust and apprpriate filters/dropdowns
every element except the card canvas and its deritavitve menus  should be relocatable and in the case of the canvas menu options, returnable. prompt bar returns automatically, on a 3s timer., and on send. both should be included as optionsin menus 
i think the prompt bar should blur th bakground on send. 
-all menus that block card canvas, should blur the backround. this will be the canvas nav bar options and their resulting canvas panes, temporary and movable panes, like the popup settings pane, will not need to blur the background. they are transluscent and small.  but you tell me. they can be mved freely. 
additional features about smart gen below:
Smart Gen:
smart gen ui
access smart gen hub via small menu pane with full width buttons, no icons: smartgen cards, smart gen boards, smart gen canvas, Smart Genie. the first 3 are free tier unlocked and allow users to see and edit and delete what's been generated. they can also create new items in these type areas. So in smart gen board they can create custom boards in addition to the default set. smart gen cards, they can create instances of existing card types or create new card types. Smart Gen Canvas is the playground. It marries the two: cards and boards. From within canvas,, you can easily access your created cards, boards, and place them freely (free drag drop for everything) anywhere in th frame. many board types exist and each of them looks like its name callout. a notebook looks like a notebook. a portfolio looks like a physical portfolio . this is intentional and necessary to drive home the idea that the functional meaning of a word is always going to be the most real and impactful rendition of the word. a notebook will always be a notebook. a digital file or tool that someone named "notebook" will almost never be a notebook, except in the rare cases where jargon is expressed openly. This seems like a common sense thing, and it is. But people are losing touch with reality. I want to encourage them to learn and understand what theyre doing and help the to break barriers they didnt even know existed. many people dont know this but any word used(same spelling and language), has only one meaning. even when used in another context or to name a technical thing, that meaning cannot be changed, and does not change. words are not assigned. they are chosen. and the only parameter that they have that is valuable, is their meaning. "bank" has many applications. river bank. bank shot. bank teller. bank slang for bet. all the same meaning. to collect. to accrue. again, seems obvious. feels lke common sense. but it isnt. this insight is never communicated and is never illustrated in behavior. its a unique insight and very valuable so i want to share it with others. for free.
canvases have customizable backgrounds. different scene types. immersive, purposeful. And they are easily loadable, swappable, from right in view. Up to 10 can be loaded at once, and can be screen swiped to navigate t, or you van click the corresponding number icon(can be custom colored and custom icon'd; doesnt have to be a rectangle or even a number; you can outright name it "job hunt". there is a character limit. you decide.
in each menu, cards, boards, canvas, there are navigation icons to instantly reach any of the other menus. so you never have to sweat about menus. simply hit the ever present navigation icon corresponding to cards, boards, canvas, or...Smart Genie. This takes you to the AI Agent responsible for your smart gen items. In this scene, you have access to a chat view.This menu is only for pro tier or higher. because it lets you generate whatever smart gen items you want with 0 friction. or whatever organization you want. r whatever boards you want. It's the equivalent of the agent you see in Canva or fIGMA. tHEY HELP YOU RIGHT THERE TO DO YOUR desires. And like those agents, it can be toggled on in smart gen cards, boards, and canvas screens. an active subscription will let you simply return to any of those menus and hit a previously locked toggle for Smart Genie. This makes the chat interface appear in that view. Like a helpdesk chat. it ca be easily minimized to a toggle icon in the view. and resumed at any tine. fully featured. conversation history. new conversation button , attachments, agentic(but no coding unless you are elite subscriber, which unlocked agents. Then you can simply attach your agents  to him  to do whatever it is your custom or preconfigured agent is supposed to do. But for most people, the smart gen functionality is plenty.  He cant directly customize the UI(even with agents), but he can do everything within the app's framework regarding smart gen. This includes applying mass field edits, updating individual cards, reconfiguring a card type to be a subset of another card type and refactoring all previous instances of this card type to inherit the new designation. so yeah this is why he is going to cost money. On demand API calls are not cheap. The smart gen screens open up full or almost full view. Whatever you pick."


the use of space should be intentional