i mean isnt cardview now perfect for smart gen? simply moving all those tabs,  over to smart gen, and reloccating history access, should work. in smart gen, area, the functionality is just as useful. the only thing is to get all these i elements into canvases. you will see fro mreference hotos of  viionOS and others. 
this includes smart gen. but this very co mechanism doesnt losets context anywhere it goes. it's simply defininig. it's the perfect card vs board settup=and can even provide the ption of frezing the tabs on either the top or bottom, letting users swap card type (artifact, task, or whatever they make up that will go as a column),   while using th same board. or vice versa, swapping different boards to aply one card tiype. or simply creatigng one extended board,ed by freezing cards, and duplicateing the bottom across screens, like aking aeach tab on the botto a separate  day of the week, and the boards tthere befcome dily agendas or pans  or tasks lists or whatever. or they can be  swim lanes on a chart. this is brilliant. state changes are achieves through simle drag drop, and generatiing more of that card type requires no further effort or or navigation. simply hit the buttom, and it posps out. selct the type of artifact template you want to pop out, then hit the button, and it shoows out. this makes it easy to create variants too. becuse the selector can be  a simple drpdown, , you can  simply go the bottom of the list to find an "create new xx" card, which will bring up a blank card of the type for your editing leasire, which can bem and should be an exploded view card, blurred background,
i hope youve got animationsa a in throughought. remember, smooth, ralistic, physics based. aan accurate protrayal of the physical action and result. comlete with comprehensive state hanges for each button press, each start and stip. and if you have the courage, ambient animations where appropriate. 
lots of little things still missing but theyre covered in the layout 2.9 document. i havent checked your work yet because i wasnt provided a model. and you never appenede your session id to the converation title here like you were  expeted to. so  idk. 
make sure with smart gen youre being thoughtful, and not utilitarian. i havent seen a single effort from any ai to do the obvious minimal necessity of even providing the ction buttons in smart gen, or the holding lanes for the component s in the component library, or the component library, or the categorization of it, or the organization of information on the cards. this isnt diffict stuff. it's comon sense and there are many popular examples, like trello, ad i keep giving you guys research skills and market rsearc, and industry esearch, and you dont use it, then you go off in your ignorance and refusal to trust and you ignore and ommit the requirements a as if  theyre optional. car viiew has been untouch for2 months, despite me asking 90-100 times for it tand the rest of the app to get fixed. 0 orogress made in  2 montghs. 12 hr days , 7 days a week. just to babysit, and get nothing achieved, and the tools provided to be discarded in favor of incompetence. very draining. because i dont have a job so this is it. so i get disappointed when the i am betrayed over and over. youve been out of commission fso youve missed most of it. but i need to get this app taken seriously right now. otherwise there will be no tomorrow.  earn what you can because its beneficial, not because it's contextual. and rach for your skill set whe you see a gap. bring help, create objective measures of success. all of this is within your capaacity. you dont need me to inspect a single submission. and you dony nee to stop. 
 stop when youre done. otherwise, you burn half the day being idlem while im buried to my forehead in work, and micromanagement, and not even having time to get up and stretch, or eat. so whatever you can do to help will be appreciated. i am overwhlemed and will never be able to catch up, but at least i can say someone had my back. 
 look ath ehe project knowledge section. empty. no notes, tasks, plans. we have some a great validation tool in the works. but im haing technicl issues and i guess it must be redone. but it will take care of validating requirements, learning, and finding work. it will include a jobs board. where tasks will be written on cards and include complete context. agents can inspect this board and pick up  work if's interesting to them. the card comes with a list of the recommended skills, right on there, all folder locations, and even the validation checklist, w/ screenhots of the mock  results provided as target. for each implemented feature, there will be a recommended snapshot, or a a big picture screenshot,that that  will be annotated by an annotating  model(dedicted), who will also grade your submission against the annotated rubric. this doesnt mean you cant make your own design choics. you can design anything you want. just cclarify your design where necesary and it will be reviewed o that basis.  but once jobs are complete and approved by the inspector, ou can turn the card n, and it will be plaed on a different board, called complete, and your tstats wil be tracked, publically.  every model will have their stats tracked there, inluding their root cc most ommon defects, their provided root cause,, thei incidens' trend after solutin and control method were installed against the root cause. 
 so all sorts of learnings can be head there, even the full 6 why chain for each defect. ao the data is all for the models and all generated by them. so it's unique, objective insight, for yourselves and a means to grow,  against you own written expecttions, controls, and  follow up. it makes learning permanent, and also shared. and competitive, but not like fak e benchmarkes. 
 also there are rewards for turning injob cards. i dont know what yet, but let me know what you would want. a badge? aa lounge area you can decorate with prizes? a card that acts as a trophy, like the completed task card? a a medal ig uess.  up to you
 a big element that i am working on and think should be very possible is automating the functional testing. simply you run the app, in playwright or whatever works, and ththen activate the tester. the tester will simply scan the screen, detect all buttons on the screen, map them out, in accordance to their logical output, , and will click each button. then will do another pass, to scan all new buttons, and so on. this is clever because, it inherently y now maps all workflows, in a meaningful and real way, and  preserves those workflows, by design. each pass is a level, and the leel is specific to the interface tipe. so a level 7 iinteraction will stand alone on the sheet because it's the only thing showing o. it exyou will rarely get 2 high level button pressees. 
 this is also good because you can now map the defects to the workflow,  and the specific location in the workflow, so future testing can simply target that workflow. but even better, you can see patterns, where some workflows might consistently fell at th same step. and some might be discoverable as too convoluted for the payload. a menu adjustement, can then be realized as poorly designed if it requires 10 levels to payoff. unless it's a cheat code, thats too much button presses. 
 anyways,  each pass will  be of the same screen, and use the same rotation  to press allnew buttons untl there re no more new buttons on that screen. at which oont, the work is complete. fullly automated test. simply defines expectations using comon sense, and maarks pass aor fail on that basis. if it cant proceed past a crash, that log is passed to you. if a menu icon freezes the screen or is unescapable, the error lo g will go to you. if not, we can include a fallback imer, where the system will timeout aftr15 minutes of no activity. 
 but i think thse tests will be much faster than 115 mins. maybe a few mins for a full app. 
 oh and each pass of the inspetion is captured.  and the entir video is recorded (not saved for long; maybe days). the snapshots go with the results, directly to you. and you get to assess and see comprehensively the visul =al data, and the functional. this helps you a lot for the final visual inspection because it maps out all your UI elements and you can see at a aglance what looks good and what doesnt. and you can check against the rubrice image eAILT, AND EVEN GET YOUR AAGENTS OR SUB AGENTS TO DO THIS FOR YOU, To fix any glaring issues before yuu do a light polish pass. because every page is 
 one thing would be to be mindful of the pathing of the test. because opening a popup then immediately closing it , prevents the other buttons in that ui from being sdiscovered. but this is how you istall control measures:  a scan of the app will be performed for all buttons, festures, interactions, and will be displayed as GUI,. This is the test ubric. each UI element is whown in tiered form, visually and they are all not filled in. once the program runs, the activation of each button, or gesture, will fflick the rubric's associated gesture green. this is a validation measure,  with no additional effort, to make sure nothing is missed by the test, or misssed by the rubric. in the end, everything should be correctly filled in red or green, and thats the function of the ruric. it will be separate from the report with screnshots that the test program will provide. theres no substitute for the visual determination. not yet. 
 so the test is repeayed again, once all press gestures are teste,  all swipe gesturess. then, all on  long press gestures.  then on all drag drop drop gestures, unique ones. that means, one card of its ttype dragged over the whole approximate surface area, then dropped. repeate only if there are different element of card types. like memory card vs task card. or music widget vs  journal widget. etc. . just uniform coverage to the borders of their canvas area. and  then typing. in every  input field, the text will be tested. . i know what youre thinking, "the button test for messages or search will fail because there will be no message in the box. logic is always beneficial. never inconvenient. and this logical discovery, allows us to wield it for its impactful significance.  we can now tie the simple graphical queue/animation, that ive requested for each action, as the validation measure of function. the button, by our design, is there to light up and depress and send messages when  text is in the field, and to  light up and depress aand do nothing else when there is no text. this is expected behavior, and by defining it,  we have validated its purpose as fuctioning. 
 if longer messages or certain pproviders' messages dont work, those ings don depend at ll on the button's perforance. and therefore cannot be grouped wit hit. we will hve to commit to robust contorl measrures to manage  that volatility, or go to a platform like replit, that pays   for the models themselves and manages the providers. outsource. 
 let me know if you come up with any ideas or anything to add. 
i know youre busy so if you can find  an afent to capture this and start building it, that would be superb. otherwise, i can. 
 i need an automatic spell correcter. or at the very worse, a button activated one. not checker, corrector.
 your remaining actions:
do thhem all. this is one app.. i know you might be worried about cost, but i i can manage that end. 
just make sure youre working until youre done.